5.0 update - Rewrite:  Razor Pages Get Started Tutorial Series (#20348)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/validation.md

* Reduce the amount of code in an app.
* Make the code less error prone, and easier to test and maintain.

The validation support provided by Razor Pages and Entity Framework is a good example of the DRY principle:

* Validation rules are declaratively specified in one place, in the model class.
* Rules are enforced everywhere in the app.

## Add validation rules to the movie model

> The DataAnnotations namespace provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DataAnnotations` namespace provides:
```

* A set of built-in validation attributes that are applied declaratively to a class or property.
* Formatting attributes like `DataType` that help with formatting and don't provide any validation.

Update the `Movie` class to take advantage of the built-in `Required`, `StringLength`, `RegularExpression`, and `Range` validation attributes.

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Models/MovieDateRatingDA.cs?name=snippet1)]

The validation attributes specify behavior to enforce on the model properties they're applied to:

> * The `Required` and `MinimumLength` attributes indicate that a property must have a value, but nothing prevents a user from entering white space to satisfy this validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `[Required]` and `[MinimumLength]` attributes indicate that a property must have a value. Nothing prevents a user from entering white space to satisfy this validation.
```

> * The `RegularExpression` attribute is used to limit what characters can be input. In the preceding code, `Genre`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `[RegularExpression]` attribute is used to limit what characters can be input. In the preceding code, `Genre`:
```

  * Must only use letters.
  * The first letter is required to be uppercase. White space, numbers, and special
   characters are not allowed.

* The `RegularExpression` `Rating`:

  * Requires that the first character be an uppercase letter.

>   * Allows special characters and numbers in  subsequent spaces. "PG-13" is valid for a rating, but fails for a `Genre`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Allows special characters and numbers in subsequent spaces. "PG-13" is valid for a rating, but fails for a `Genre`.
```

* The `Range` attribute constrains a value to within a specified range.

> * The `StringLength` attribute can set a maximum length of a string property, and optionally its minimum length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `[StringLength]` attribute can set a maximum length of a string property, and optionally its minimum length.
```

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/localization/currency.md)]

Notice how the form has automatically rendered a validation error message in each field containing an invalid value. The errors are enforced both client-side, using JavaScript and jQuery, and server-side, when a user has JavaScript disabled.

> A significant benefit is that **no** code changes were necessary in the Create or Edit pages. Once DataAnnotations were applied to the model, the validation UI was enabled. The Razor Pages created in this tutorial automatically picked up the validation rules, using validation attributes on the properties of the `Movie` model class. Test validation using the Edit page, the same validation is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A significant benefit is that **no** code changes were necessary in the Create or Edit pages. Once data annotations were applied to the model, the validation UI was enabled. The Razor Pages created in this tutorial automatically picked up the validation rules, using validation attributes on the properties of the `Movie` model class. Test validation using the Edit page, the same validation is applied.
```

The Create and Edit pages have no validation rules in them. The validation rules and the error strings are specified only in the `Movie` class. These validation rules are automatically applied to Razor Pages that edit the `Movie` model.

When validation logic needs to change, it's done only in the model. Validation is applied consistently throughout the application, validation logic is defined in one place. Validation in one place helps keep the code clean, and makes it easier to maintain and update.

## Using DataType Attributes

Examine the `Movie` class. The `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations` namespace provides formatting attributes in addition to the built-in set of validation attributes. The `DataType` attribute is applied to the `ReleaseDate` and `Price` properties.

[!code-csharp[](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Models/MovieDateRatingDA.cs?highlight=2,6&name=snippet2)]

> The `DataType` attributes provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[DataType]` attributes provide:
```

* Hints for the view engine to format the data.
* Supplies attributes such as `<a>` for URL's and `<a href="mailto:EmailAddress.com">` for email.

> Use the `RegularExpression` attribute to validate the format of the data. The `DataType` attribute is used to specify a data type that's more specific than the database intrinsic type. `DataType` attributes are not validation attributes. In the sample application, only the date is displayed, without time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `[RegularExpression]` attribute to validate the format of the data. The `[DataType]` attribute is used to specify a data type that's more specific than the database intrinsic type. `[DataType]` attributes aren't validation attributes. In the sample application, only the date is displayed, without time.
```

> The `DataType` Enumeration provides for many data types, such as Date, Time, PhoneNumber, Currency, EmailAddress, and more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DataType` enumeration provides many data types, such as `Date`, `Time`, `PhoneNumber`, `Currency`, `EmailAddress`, and more. 
```

> The `DataType` attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[DataType]` attributes:
```

public DateTime ReleaseDate { get; set; }
```

The `ApplyFormatInEditMode` setting specifies that the formatting will be applied when the value is displayed for editing. That behavior may not be wanted for some fields. For example, in currency values, the currency symbol is usually not wanted in the edit UI.

> The `DisplayFormat` attribute can be used by itself, but it's generally a good idea to use the `DataType` attribute. The `DataType` attribute conveys the semantics of the data as opposed to how to render it on a screen. The `DataType` attribute provides the following benefits that are not available with DisplayFormat:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[DisplayFormat]` attribute can be used by itself, but it's generally a good idea to use the `DataType` attribute. The `[DataType]` attribute conveys the semantics of the data as opposed to how to render it on a screen. The `[DataType]` attribute provides the following benefits that aren't available with `[DisplayFormat]`:
```

[Range(typeof(DateTime), "1/1/1966", "1/1/2020")]
   ```

> It is a best practice to avoid compiling hard dates in models, so using the `Range` attribute and `DateTime` is discouraged. Use [Configuration]<xref:fundamentals/configuration/index> for date ranges and other values that are subject to frequent change rather than specifying it in code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a best practice to avoid compiling hard dates in models, so using the `[Range]` attribute and `DateTime` is discouraged. Use [Configuration]<xref:fundamentals/configuration/index> for date ranges and other values that are subject to frequent change rather than specifying it in code.
```

> It's a best practice to avoid compiling hard dates in models, so using the `[Range]` attribute and `DateTime` is discouraged. Use [Configuration]<xref:fundamentals/configuration/index> for date ranges and other values that are subject to frequent change rather than specifying it in code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a best practice to avoid compiling hard dates in models, so using the `[Range]` attribute and `DateTime` is discouraged. Use [Configuration](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index) for date ranges and other values that are subject to frequent change rather than specifying it in code.
```
